(gun clinks)
HIZURU: Narezushi isn't all that common
in Hitogashima.
(Shinpei gasps)
I haven't had a chance to try it just yet.
What about yourself, huh?
Huh? What?
SHINPEI: I know that woman.
From the ferry!
(groaning)
(gasps)
The... The shadow?
SHINPEI: It's gone!
(thrilling music)
(blade clinks)
(gunshot)
(whimpers)
That's impressive. Do you have eyes
on the back of your head?
(hissing)
-(static)
-Why did you...
SHINPEI: This... This can't be happening.
Did she just kill a shadow?
(breathing heavily)
It's nice to meet you, I guess.
(festival music in distance)
(groaning)
You know, I used to live here
when I was a kid.
But I never got around
to trying narezushi.
I'm really curious what it tastes like.
(Shinpei groans)
SHINPEI: Who are you?
Oh, my god. That's so rude of me.
(static)
My name's Ryunosuke Nagumo.
Nagu... Huh? Ryunosuke?
I arrived here just in time to save you.
HIZURU: I'm sorry it took
as long as it did...
Shinpei Ajiro.
(gasps)
(theme music)
Na... Nagumo...
HIZURU: Oh. This way!
(Shinpei yelps)
What... What is it?
(shushes)
-A shadow.
-(gasps)
(panting)
SHINPEI: Ushio!
I told it to just stay put inside!
Hold on. It's dangerous up there.
The shadows are gathering.
So... So you can...
So you can tell humans and shadows apart?
HIZURU:
Shadows are pretty easy to identify,
they hide inside a lump of skin and bone
shaped like a human.
For starters, always look at the ground.
You can see their true form
in the flat shadow
they cast on the ground.
And they hate
when people walk on their shadows.
If you try to step on them on purpose,
you'll notice
that only the shadow will move.
(Shinpei inhales sharply)
HIZURU: I don't know this for sure,
but it seems like
shadows use light to scan
and analyze humans,
and absorb the information.
My theory is that they process the info,
and somehow use it to determine
who'll they'll feed on next.
Shadows consume information
about us to survive.
However, they have an insatiable craving
for the taste of real flesh.
See that? That stain there
is from a shadow devouring a human body.
(gasps)
These shadows
just keep targeting people on the island.
HIZURU: And that goes for you, too.
It seems like
there are more and more every day,
no matter how many of them I take down.
It feels like they're all
being controlled somehow.
Like they're all working and moving
in the service of a single goal.
(gasps)
SHINPEI: A single goal.
"Mother will... will be awake soon."
-(zaps)
-(Shinpei gasps)
SHINPEI: What was that light?
(Shinpei grunts)
You can kill shadows with that gun,
right, Miss Nagumo?
That's... That's your name, right?
You're the writer.
Ah... Ah, yeah, I am.
Yes, I knew it! Please help me, okay?
I'm desperate here.
I have a lot... I wanna ask you
but that's for another time.
SHINPEI: But right now...
Mio and all my friends
are just standing
out in the open up there.
(grunts)
(panting)
HIZURU: Shinpei Ajiro.
Does he really think he's
going to save everyone, huh, Sis?
(panting)
SHINPEI: Toki!
Huh? Shinpei, that you?
(panting)
Oh, thank god. Where's everyone? And Mio?
Toki...
(grunts)
(gasps)
TOKIKO: I'm so sorry.
-(Shinpei gasps)
-(Tokiko sobs)
No, not... not this...
I didn't get my hands dirty for this.
I... I never thought this would happen.
-(knife pierces flesh)
-(groans)
(whimpers)
SHINPEI: Toki...
(Tokiko whimpers)
(gasps)
Stop there. Step back.
(gasping)
(ominous music)
SHADOW: It is almost nine o'clock.
(gun clicks)
The festival is finished. And it's time
for me to bring this final day to an end.
(whimpers)
SHINPEI: The shrine grounds
were thick with the humid evening air
and the sickening,
half-sweet stench of blood.
There was a mountain of corpses,
villagers and tourists.
SHADOW: You shall not impede me.
SHINPEI: One... three...
Five... seven... nine...
Eleven...
I just couldn't help but count them.
Even totally frozen with terror,
I was trying to make sense of things.
(both gasp)
SHINPEI: And then...
(groaning)
Sou!
Mio, run.
Well, now, ain't this touching!
-(blood squelches)
-(Mio whimpers)
SHADOW SOU: Sacrificing his life
for you like that.
Clearly, I wasn't kidding
when I said I was in love with you!
(sobbing)
No.
But it always was the same with you.
Shinpei this and Shinpei that.
MIO: Sou, please.
(whooshes)
-(gun clicks)
-(bullet clatters)
(soft grunt)
(suspenseful music)
Mio!
(static)
What the...
(gasps)
(gunshot)
(groans)
(gasps)
(Hizuru groans)
(static)
SHADOW: Dangerous, isn't it?
Since you're intruding so blithely
upon this holy ritual of ours,
I take it you must have defeated
the other Mio.
(groans)
So you're... you're the boss, then, huh?
What... Who are you?
Who the hell are you? Answer me!
(gasps)
(groaning)
Let me see your right eye.
SHADOW: I knew it. It's the same right eye
Mother lost long ago!
What are you doing with it?
Why do you have the original?
Using that eye makes it possible
to manipulate time.
(Shinpei gasps)
(grunts)
Let me go!
Hey, hey, come on now. What're you doing?
Just stop struggling, okay?
SHADOW SHINPEI: After all,
you're one of us, too.
No! You're wrong, I'm human!
I'm Ushio Kofune!
You fool. You're not a human.
You know, humans don't instantly recover
from something like a broken arm.
(sobbing)
(groaning)
SHADOW: Since the hero can always restart
the game from a save point,
the only way for a final boss
to defeat him
is to pull the plug,
disconnecting the console
from the power source.
Imagine if you faced a boss
in a video game
who understood a concrete,
real-world concept like electrical power.
(panting)
Watch closely, I'll show you.
Look, Shinpei.
You're about to see the moment
where I cut off the power.
(gasps)
No, stop! Let me go!
I know I'm not one of you!
Shinpei! Mio! Take care of her!
USHIOH: Mio!
(sobbing)
(grunts)
(Mio sobbing)
Mio...
(groaning)
Mi...
Shin-chan.
(grunts)
Wait for me. I'll...
(Shinpie grunts)
-MIO: Oh, Shin-chan.
-SHINPEI: I'll save you.
-(Shinpei grunting)
-(sobbing)
(Shinpei grunting)
(whimpers)
(fire crackling)
No way! Mio!
Mio! No!
(Ushio wailing)
USHIOH: No! Mio!
No! No! Get away! Leave Mio alone!
Your last meal is before you.
SHADOW: Please eat
to your heart's content.
(Shinpei sobs)
HIZURU: That gigantic shadow.
It swallowed up the others
after it touched them.
You were the one who was totally useless
in the end, Ryunosuke.
(gasps)
-It turns out I was too late to stop this.
-(static)
(gasps)
(ominous music)
Uh...
Now then, look down
and grant me the last of your strength.
(power surge)
(sobbing)
SHADOW: Mother.
(rumbling)
Nothingness lies ahead.
-Do you see that? What is it?
-What is that up there, mama?
(people clamoring)
Huh? What is that? What the...
Hm?
HISHIGATA: She must have eaten
a thousand humans, and that revived her.
She's here.
(sighs)
Look.
(static)
HISHIGATA: The shadows
will swallow up the island.
Heine.
(slurps)
HEINE: Ah. Delicious.
SHADOW: This is it.
This will be my ending.
(Shinpei sobbing)
SHINPEI: I'm sorry.
(sobbing)
SHINPEI: Mio, everyone...
I'm so sorry. Shinpei, I'm sorry.
HIZURU: Why didn't I believe...
Why did it take me so long
to believe the message?
(groans)
I guess I was too late.
Way too late.
(breathing heavily)
-SHINPEI: No!
-(groans)
SHINPEI: I should have done that
when I had the chance.
Why didn't I say
what I was really thinking?
All I had were regrets.
Nothing but regrets.
Right now I don't feel
even the slightest sense of regret!
It isn't too late to change things yet!
-Miss Nagumo!
-Huh?
SHADOW: Hm?
You have to shoot me right now!
Please, I'm begging you! Just kill me.
No matter how many times I die,
I'll just keep coming back!
(gasps)
Shoot me! Aim for my head, okay?
(soft chuckle)
You really say some pretty crazy stuff,
don't you? Here goes nothing.
Just do it, all right!?
I can go back to the 22nd.
Your efforts are futile.
I think this... this is going to be
my last shot.
SHINPEI: Please.
You have to trust me! Do it!
The shadows will swallow you up as well.
Come here!
You monster!
HIZURU: If you really can go back
in time to the 22nd,
just remember to tell me your name,
and I'll save you.
(gunshot)
(static)
SHINPEI: It's dark.
Nothing. No one's here.
They're gone.
This scene right here...
Am I looking from the bird's-eye view?
Stop this. Stop it. Stop right now!
(tranquil music)
(wind gusting)
SHINPEI: The island...
What is that red light?
It's a girl?
Just now... our eyes met.
USHIO: Shinpei.
Huh? Ushio? Ushio!
USHIO: Be careful, okay?
There's a limit to this power, Shinpei.
Everyone will die at the festival.
I can hear you clearly this time.
Ushio! Where are you?
You are the only one
who can stop them now.
Take care of Mio. Please look after her.
(gasps)
MIO: So what's Tokyo like?
Been to Shibuya? Shibuya!
(Shinpei panting)
Ah. Hey, Shin-chan?
(gasps)
SHINPEI (in hoarse voice): I'm back.
(retches)
MIO: Shin... Shin-chan?
(Shinpei gags)
SHINPEI: I did it.
Did you get chills
from falling into the water before?
-SHINPEI: Mio, she's alive.
-Did you hit your head or something?
Uh... Uh, Shin... Uh, Shin-chan?
Oh, thank goodness.
(sobs)
SHINPEI: I'm okay.
Just a little seasick from the ferry.
SHINPEI: What the...
My clothes are soaked.
Ah. Of course.
I fell into the sea
when I tried to stop Mio's bike.
She had to jump in and save me.
MIO: Hey, you look really pale.
Why don't we take a nice long rest
after we get changed?
Thank goodness
our phones still work, though.
We can't show up at the funeral
with soaking wet clothes, you know.
Plus, I should probably take a shower.
SHINPEI: Remember what Ushio told me,
there's a limit to this power.
Take a step back
and look at the big picture.
First time was on the ferry.
Second time was after landing.
This time around, it's after I met Mio.
I think the starting point of the loop
is getting later and later.
Anything that happens before I wake up
seems to become fixed
every time I come back.
THIRD TIME
In other words, now I'm guaranteed
to fall into the sea. Every time.
SWAMP MAN
BY RYUNOSUKE NAGUMO
And if I die and wake up again,
it'll be even later than it was this time.
I can't just fail forever.
And if eventually I wake up after Mio
and everyone else is already dead,
I won't be able to save them
even if I try to restart the loop.
Three days.
Three days until the summer festival.
Can I really solve this
in just three days?
No. What am I saying?
(grunts)
USHIO: You are the only one
who can stop them now.
SHINPEI: I'm going to do this!
(moans)
(waves crashing)
What the...
(closing theme music)